add documentation for nft-storefront-v2 (#70)
onflow/nft-storefront: docs/documentation.md

    
    **Note -** *We recommended for marketplaces and p2p dApps not to show the expired listings on their dashboards.*

## Purchasing NFTs

Purchasing NFTs through the `NFTStorefrontV2` is simple. The buyer has to provide the payment vault and the `commissionRecipient` , if applicable, during the purchase. p2p dApps don’t need any intermediaries to facilitate the purchase of listings. [`purchase`](#fun-purchase) API offered by the `Listing` resource gets used to facilitate the purchase of NFT.

During the purchase of a listing, all saleCuts are paid automatically. It also includes the [royalties](#enabling-creator-royalties-for-nfts) of the NFT. If the vault provided by the buyer doesn’t have sufficient funds, then the transaction will fail.

### Considerations

1. **Auto cleanup -** `NFTStorefrontV2` offers a unique ability to do auto cleanup of duplicate listings during a purchase. It comes with a drawback if one NFT has thousands of duplicate listings. It will become the bottleneck during purchasing one of the listings as it will likely trigger an out-of-gas error. 

> 

Reviewer: @satyamakgec it feels like this might not apply so much to the buyer as the seller?

		let royalties = (royaltiesRef as! MetadataViews.Royalties).getRoyalties()
		// Append the royalties as the salecut
    for royalty in royalties {
        self.saleCuts.append(NFTStorefrontV2.SaleCut(receiver: royalty.receiver, amount: royalty.cut * effectiveSaleItemPrice))
        totalRoyaltyCut = totalRoyaltyCut + royalty.cut * effectiveSaleItemPrice
    }
}
```

Complete transaction can be viewed [here](https://github.com/onflow/nft-storefront/blob/main/transactions/sell_item.cdc).

`saleCut` only supports a single receiver type because the beneficiary of saleCut cannot receive different currency as the royalty or a general sale percentage cut. To resolve this, we recommend using the [FungibleTokenSwitchboard](https://github.com/onflow/flow-ft/blob/master/contracts/FungibleTokenSwitchboard.cdc) contract. It defines a generic receiver for fungible tokens so a user can always provide their generic receiver, regardless of what fungible token they want. The switchboard will manage the routing of funds to the respective vault. Read more about this [here](https://github.com/onflow/flow-ft#fungible-token-switchboard).

## Enabling marketplace commissions for NFT sales

> `NFTStorefrontV2` introduces the commissions on trade to incentivize the listing's facilitator (i.e Marketplaces , dapps). Commission & commission receivers are set during the listing creation, and only one of the commission receivers, i.e. `marketplaceAddress` can take away to commission after the fulfilment of the listing. However, if a user wants to create a p2p listing, then the user can set commission receivers as `nil`. At the same time, the commission will be available to anyone for grabs. If the buyer of the NFT and `commissionRecipient` is the same, then the commission can act as the discount.

Reviewer: "`NFTStorefrontV2` enables optional commissions on trades for marketplaces which require it as a condition to list a NFT for sale. Commission & commission receivers are set by the seller during initial listing creation. At time of purchase the commission amount is paid once only to the commission receiver matching the marketplace receiver address which facilitated the sale.

For NFT listings in marketplaces which don't require commission, commission receivers can be set as `nil`. Setting the buyer of the NFT and `commissionRecipient` to the same has the effect of applying a discount for the buyer."

@satyamakgec from the original text can you please explain what the specific way that this would work when commission is 'up for grabs' - "At the same time, the commission will be available to anyone for grabs". it's not clear how it works, who gets the commission and how (doesn't a receiver address need to first be set?)

# Primer
NFTStorefront contract comes to life to fulfil the growing demand of non-custodial marketplace on FLOW blockchain. p2p dapps can create a NFT marketplace using the API's offered by the NFTStorefrontV2 contract and allow the sellers to list the NFTs to their dApp or may allow to create listing for the different marketplaces like OpenSea, Rariable, BloctoBay etc.

![dapps_1](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/14581509/191749748-714f9d8f-cb41-4be4-a3d2-ec84cb8b5ffb.png)

Above clearly depicts how dApps can leverage the NFTStorefrontV2 and create there own marketplace allow p2p purcahses, While below diagram shows how dApps can facilitate the creation of NFT listings for different marketplaces and how marketplaces can filter there listings.

![dapps_2](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/14581509/191753605-e1c48a57-0c3c-4509-808b-8fee4e7d32e8.png)

While with the help of NFTStorefrontV2, marketplaces can tap into vibrant FLOW NFT ecosystem and allow NFT holders to list their NFTs and enable creator royalties as well.

![marketplace_1](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/14581509/191755699-fe0570cb-80a3-408c-8eef-4051e3209481.png)

## Functional Overview

> A general purpose sale support contract for NFTs implementing the Flow `NonFungibleToken` standard.

Reviewer: Do we want to link to the Flow NFT docs here?

Each account that wants to list NFTs for sale creates a `Storefront` resource to store in their account and lists individual sales within that Storefront as Listings. There is usually one Storefront per account stored at the `/storage/NFTStorefrontV2` and it can handle sales of all NFT types. 

Each Listing can define one or more sale cuts taken out of the sale price to go to one or more addresses. Cuts can be used to pay listing fees, royalties, or other such considerations. Also listing can include a commission as one of these sale cuts that is paid to whoever facilitates the purchase. 

> Listing can have optional list of marketplace receiver capabilities, Used to receive the commission for fullfiling the listing. A NFT may be listed in one or more Listings, the validity of each listing can easily be checked.

Reviewer: s/Used/used - seems like a random caps

# Enabling creator royalties for NFTs

NFTStorefrontV2 contract support royalties but it doesn't mandate, It is a choice of marketplaces whether they want to support the creator royalties during listing or not. However, we encourage the marketplaces to support the royalties to stimulate the artists participation in FLOW ecosystem.

If seller's NFT supports [Royalty Metadata View](https://github.com/onflow/flow-nft/blob/21c254438910c8a4b5843beda3df20e4e2559625/contracts/MetadataViews.cdc#L335) standard then marketplaces can support royalties during the fulfillment of a listing. NFTStorefrontV2 can dynamically fetch the royalty details during the creation of the listing and turn it into the `saleCut` of the listing.

> ```solidity

Reviewer: Is this correct? Should it not be ```cadence instead?

```

Above event gets emitted when a listing has been created and added to a Storefront resource. The Address values here are valid when the event is emitted, but the state of the accounts they refer to may change outside of the
NFTStorefrontV2 workflow, so be careful to check when using them.

---

### event `ListingCompleted`

```cadence
event ListingCompleted(listingResourceID: UInt64, storefrontResourceID: UInt64, purchased: Bool, nftType: Type, nftUUID: UInt64, nftID: UInt64, salePaymentVaultType: Type, salePrice: UFix64, customID: String?, commissionAmount: UFix64, commissionReceiver: Address?, expiry: UInt64)
```
The listing has been resolved. It has either been purchased, removed or destroyed.

---

### event `UnpaidReceiver`

```cadence
event UnpaidReceiver(receiver: Address, entitledSaleCut: UFix64)
```
A entitled receiver has not been paid during the sale of the NFT.

---

**Holistic process flow diagram of NFTStorefrontV2 -** 

> [NFT Storefront Process flow | Lucidchart](https://lucid.app/lucidchart/a0015c93-183d-4ab5-8a28-8909cc34b25d/edit?viewport_loc=-565%2C-377%2C3743%2C1941%2Cm-5o7ONTd-nK&invitationId=inv_f6e78c34-46da-41b4-a229-95eae82e8e9f#)

Reviewer: We should probably only post the JPG of the LucidChart rather than the LucidChart itself :)

We highly recommend sellers, marketplace developers and integrators onboard the `NFTStorefrontV2` contract for seamless integration into Flow's ecosystem-wide NFT marketplace functionality in your applications!

### Overview

The `NFTStorefrontV2` contract makes it simple for Sellers to list NFTs in dApp specific marketplaces. DApp developers leverage the APIs provided by the contract to manage listings being offered for sale and to transact NFT trades. 

![dapps_1](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/14581509/191749748-714f9d8f-cb41-4be4-a3d2-ec84cb8b5ffb.png)

Listings made through a specific dApp storefront can be simultaneously listed on 3rd party marketplaces beyond that dApp. Well known 3rd party marketplaces listen for compatible NFT listing events enabling the automation of listings into their marketplace UIs.

![dapps_2](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/14581509/191753605-e1c48a57-0c3c-4509-808b-8fee4e7d32e8.png)

> Marketplaces facilitate a NFT trade through direct interaction with seller storefronts. Flow's account based model ensures that NFTs listed for sale remain in the Seller account until traded, regardless of how many listings are posted across any number of marketplaces, for the same NFT.

Author: ```suggestion
Marketplaces facilitate a NFT trade through direct interaction with seller storefront resources. Flow's account based model ensures that NFTs listed for sale remain in the Seller account until traded, regardless of how many listings are posted across any number of marketplaces, for the same NFT.
```

2. ***Expired listings*** `NFTStorefrontV2` introduces a safety measure to flag an NFT listing as expired after a certain period. This can be set during listing creation to prevent the purchase through the listing after expiry has been reached. Once expiry has been reached the listing can no longer facilitate the purchase of the NFT. 

    We recommend that using the [`cleanupExpiredListings`](#fun-cleanupExpiredListings) function to manage expired listings. 
    
    ***Note:*** We recommend that marketplaces and dApps filter out expired listings as they cannot be purchased.

## Purchasing NFTs

Purchasing NFTs through the `NFTStorefrontV2` is simple. The buyer has to provide the payment vault and the `commissionRecipient`, if applicable, during the purchase. The [`purchase`](#fun-purchase) API offered by the `Listing` facilitates the trade with the buyer in the seller's `Storefront`.

During the listing purchase all `saleCuts` are paid automatically. This also includes distributing [royalties](#enabling-creator-royalties-for-nfts) for that NFT, if applicable. If the vault provided by the buyer lacks sufficient funds then the transaction will fail.

### Considerations

> 1. ***Auto cleanup*** `NFTStorefrontV2` provides the [`getDuplicateListingIDs`](#fun-getDuplicateListingIDs) function to support cleanup of duplicate listings. The only drawback of this applies to NFTs with large numbers of duplicate listings. When a NFT is listed in a large number of marketplaces and performs cleanup on sale, it will slow the purchase and in the worst case may trigger an out-of-gas error. 

Reviewer: @satyamakgec one thing to check with you is whether I am referring to the right function here. Also, I was curious why this is in the purchase section. The main question I have is whether this is mainly best-practice guidance, rather than 'Considerations'?

Author: `getDuplicateListingIDs` doesn't do any cleanup it only returns the duplicate listing Ids for a given listing. `purchase` function internally calls the cleanup function that removes all the duplicate listings.

Technically the first statement is incorrect.

		// Resolve the royalty view
    let royaltiesRef = nft.resolveView(Type<MetadataViews.Royalties>())?? panic("Unable to retrieve the royalties")
	  // Fetch the royalties.
		let royalties = (royaltiesRef as! MetadataViews.Royalties).getRoyalties()
		// Append the royalties as the salecut
    for royalty in royalties {
        self.saleCuts.append(NFTStorefrontV2.SaleCut(receiver: royalty.receiver, amount: royalty.cut * effectiveSaleItemPrice))
        totalRoyaltyCut = totalRoyaltyCut + royalty.cut * effectiveSaleItemPrice
    }
}
```

Complete transaction available [here](https://github.com/onflow/nft-storefront/blob/main/transactions/sell_item.cdc).

`saleCut` only supports a single token receiver type and therefore beneficiaries of a `saleCut` can only receive the token type used for the purchase. To support different token types for saleCuts we recommend using the [FungibleTokenSwitchboard](https://github.com/onflow/flow-ft/blob/master/contracts/FungibleTokenSwitchboard.cdc) contract.

***Note:*** We recommend that marketplaces honor creator royalties across the Flow ecosystem

## Enabling marketplace commissions for NFT sales

> `NFTStorefrontV2` enables optional commissions on trades for marketplaces which require it as a condition to list a NFT for sale. Commission & commission receivers are set by the seller during initial listing creation. At time of purchase the commission amount is paid once only to the commission receiver matching the marketplace receiver address which facilitated the sale. When commission is set but no commission receivers are specified, the commission is paid to [TBD].

Reviewer: @satyamakgec "When commission is set but no commission receivers are specified, the commission is paid to [TBD]." - who gets paid?

Author: Anyone can take the commission, as there is no whitelisting for the commission receivers. Technically the receiver provided at the time of purchase function will receive the commission.

    pub fun getAllowedCommissionReceivers(): [Capability<&{FungibleToken.Receiver}>]?
}
```
An interface providing a useful public interface to a Listing.

### Functions

**fun `borrowNFT()`**

```cadence
fun borrowNFT(): &NonFungibleToken.NFT?
```
This will assert in the same way as the NFT standard borrowNFT()
if the NFT is absent, for example if it has been sold via another listing.

---

**fun `purchase()`**

```cadence
fun purchase(payment FungibleToken.Vault, commissionRecipient Capability<&{FungibleToken.Receiver}>?): NonFungibleToken.NFT
```
Facilitates the purchase of the listing by providing the payment vault
and the commission recipient capability if there is a non-zero commission for the given listing.
Respective saleCuts are transferred to beneficiaries and funtion return underlying or listed NFT.

---

**fun `getDetails()`**

```cadence
fun getDetails(): ListingDetails
```
Fetches the details of the listings

---

**fun `getAllowedCommissionReceivers()`**

```cadence
fun getAllowedCommissionReceivers(): [Capability<&{FungibleToken.Receiver}>]?
```
Fetches the allowed marketplaces capabilities or commission receivers for the underlying listing.

> If it returns `nil` then commission is up to grab by anyone.

Reviewer: @satyamakgec similar to previous comment, how does commission beneficiary get set?
